There are hundreds of programming languages in use today. How can you 
know which one to learn first? How do you know which ones are the bes 
t for your IT field of choice? Well, I can't answer that question for 
you. But why not start by learning one of the top 10 most popular one 
s? That way you will always be able to get a job in the IT industry. L
 earning a programming language is not easy, but it can be very reward
i ng. You will have a lot of questions at first. Just remember to get 
he lp when you need it! You can find out the answer to almost everythi
ng on Google nowadays.... so there is no excuse for failure. Also reme
mb er that it takes years to become an expert programmer. Don't expect
 t o get good overnight. Just keep learning something new every day an
d eventually you will be competent enough to get the job done ;) This 
a rticle covers the top 10 most popular programming languages as ranke
d by Tiobe.com in June 2009. I have added some general reviews and com
me nts about each language they listed. Remember these are my own pers
ona l opinions. Other IT professionals might have different opinions. 
1. Java. Java uses a compiler, and is an object-oriented language rele
ase d in 1995 by Sun Microsystems. Java is the number one programming 
lang uage today for many reasons. First, it is a well-organized langua
ge wi th a strong library of reusable software components. Second, pro
grams written in Java can run on many different computer architectures
 and o perating systems because of the use of the JVM ( Java virtual m
achine ). Sometimes this is referred to as code portability or even WO
RA ( wr ite once, run anywhere ). Third, Java is the language most lik
ely to b e taught in university computer science classes. A lot of com
puter sci ence theory books written in the past decade use Java in the
 code exam ples. So learning Java syntax is a good idea even if you ne
ver actuall y code in it. Java Strengths: WORA, popularity. Java Weakn
esses: Slowe r than natively compiled languages 2. C. C is a compiled,
 procedural language developed in 1972 by Dennis Ritchie for use in th
e UNIX opera ting system. Although designed to be portable in nature, 
C programs mu st be specifically compiled for computers with different
 architectures and operating systems. This helps make them lightning f
ast. Although C is a relatively old language, it is still widely used 
for system pro gramming, writing other programming languages, and in e
mbedded systems . Strengths: Speed. Weaknesses: Memory management can 
be difficult to master 3. C++. C++ is a compiled, multi-paradigm langu
age written as an update to C in 1979 by Bjarne Stroustrup. It attempt
s to be backwar ds-compatible with C and brings object-orientation, wh
ich helps in lar ger projects. Despite it's age, C++ is used to create
 a wide array of applications from games to office suites. Strengths: 
Speed. Weaknesses : C++ is older and considered more clumsy than newer
 object-oriented l anguages such as Java or C#. 4. PHP. PHP uses a run
-time interpreter, and is a multi-paradigm language originally develop
ed in 1996 by Rasm us Lerdorf to create dynamic web pages. At first it
 was not even a re al programming language, but over time it eventuall
y grew into a fully featured object-oriented programming language. Alt
hough PHP has been much criticized in the past for being a bit sloppy 
and insecure, it's been pretty good since version 5 came out in 2004. 
It's hard to argue with success. Today, PHP is the most popular langua
ge used to write w eb applications. Even English 4 IT, the program you
 are currently usin g, is written in PHP ;) Strengths: Web programming
, good documentation . Weaknesses: Inconsistent syntax, too many ways 
to do the same thing, a history of bizarre security decisions 5. VB ( 
or Visual Basic ). V isual Basic is an interpreted, multi-paradigm lan
guage developed by Mi crosoft Corporation for the Windows platform. It
 has been evolving ov er the years and is seen as a direct descendant 
of Microsoft's old BAS IC from the 1970's. Visual Basic is a good lang
uage for scripting Wind ows applications that do not need the power an
d speed of C#. Strengths : None. Weaknesses: Only runs in Windows